Add more documentation about the rewriter (#9672)
cvc5/cvc5: src/rewriter/README.md

### Matching

> The basic form of a RARE rewrite rule uses `define-rule`. The two expressions in

Author: Should I just say "variables appearing in the parameter list can match any expression of the same type" and elaborate on the existing examples?

> The basic form of a RARE rewrite rule uses `define-rule`. The two expressions in

Reviewer: Yes, but it also seems that you never explain the :list modifier.

> The basic form of a RARE rewrite rule uses `define-rule`. The two expressions in

Author: added section about `:list` in fixed point rules

> the body of `define-rule` indicate the *match* and *target* of the rewrites.

Author: done

``` lisp
(define-rule substr-empty
	((m Int) (n Int))
	(str.substr "" m n)
	"")
```
In this case, the match is `(str.substr "" m n)` and the target is `""`. For example, when the rule is applied to `(str.substr "" 3 5)`, `m,n` are instantiated to `3,5`, respectively, and the expression is rewritten as `""`.

> Match is purely syntactic. It matches *syntactically identical* terms. For

Reviewer: Yes, that sounds good.

example `(= (str.++ x1 x2) x2)`matches `a ++ b = b` but not `a ++ b = c`.

> ### Conditional Rules

Reviewer: You mention that "In define-cond-rule, an additional expression immediately after the parameter and definition list restricts the rule to certain cases." but have not yet explained or even mentioned definition lists. It might be worth moving that part up before describing conditions.

Author: done

```
This rule is applied on `(repeat 3 ...)` but not `(repeat 1 ...)`.

> Implicit assumptions are not required. For example, it is unnecessary in the example below to enforce `0 <= i <= j < (bvsize x)`. The type checker will automatically ensure the expressions entering the reconstruction algorithms have sound types.

Reviewer: Explain what an implicit assumption is

Reviewer: Mention that they arise from SMTLIB

Author: done

	(concat (repeat n (extract (- s 1) (- s 1) x)) x))
```

> ## Adding new operators

Reviewer: I like this section. Maybe add to the heading (or text) that this is purely about parsing RARE rules in cvc5? Since the rest of the documentation is not cvc5 specific.

Author: done

The symbols usable in `(<id> <expr>+)` can be found in `node.py`. The sorts
available can be found in `mkrewrites.py`.

## Changes from Previous Works

In comparison to
[fmcad22](https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/abstract/document/10026573), we have
removed the `let` expression.  `let` is replaced by `def` which allow symbols to

> be shared across the condition, source, and target terms.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
be shared across the condition, match, and target terms.
```

> We also deleted the `const` modifier the rationale is that there are 3 reasons to use `:const`:

Reviewer: "Compared to previous work on this topic..."

Maybe start with something like this since const is not part of the FMCAD paper.

Reviewer: I also think the sentence is a bit confusing, let me try to rephrase.

Author: done

Reviewer: It is already better the way you rephrased it now! I think adding a comma after "modifier" and saying "the rationale behind this is" would have helped as well.

> We also deleted the `const` modifier the rationale is that there are 3 reasons to use `:const`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Compared to previous work, we also deleted the `const` modifier. Due to changes in the rewriter it is not necessary anymore to flag parameters as constants. There used to be three reasons to use `:const`:
```

> 1. There should not be a rule that is only sound when its arguments are constant, so `:const` should not exist in this case.

Reviewer: I don't quite understand this? Add why there shouldn't (I guess because the evaluator would do this)? What changed so that we don't need this anymore (evaluater again)? Isn't this a subcase of 2?

Author: The logical validity of a rule shouldn't be impacted by whether something's const or not

Reviewer: Ah okay that makes sense, thanks.

2. The evaluation of operator applications of all constant arguments is handled by the rewriter, and therefore rules evaluating constant expressions should not exist in RARE
3. There are some conditional rules in `theory/bv` which only apply when the
   arguments satisfy a condition. In this case, we could match the required argument using a `(bv v n)` term with variable bit width `n` instead of an abstract bitvector term `(y ?BitVec)`. For example,
``` lisp
(define-cond-rule bv-udiv-pow2-1p
  ((x ?BitVec) (v Int) (n Int))
  (def (power (int.log2 v)))
  (and (int.ispow2 v) (> v 1))
  (bvudiv x (bv v n))
  (concat (bv 0 power) (extract (- n 1) power x)))
```

> More information can be found in other works but beware of changes.

Reviewer: I think this might be to negative also it is quite inconcrete. Maybe rather have related work section or refer to the changes section you have above.

Author: This sentence "More information can be found in other works but beware of changes." was the result of one of our one to one meetings. Do you want it deleted?

Reviewer: No not necessarily, it is good to help people find more information and make them aware that there might be changes. But it would be good to be more concrete where they can find more information (you already mention the fmcad paper at the beginning of that section but other sounds like you mean work different from that?). Maybe this is controversial, I'll let the other's chime in.

Author: sounds good. I'll wait for others inputs on this one
